A pertrochanteric fracture without a distal extension or without another fracture distally can be treated successfully with a short intramedullary nail.

A longer nail is required for fractures with subtrochanteric extension or associated femoral shaft fracture, and some surgeons prefer them routinely. Some manufacturers provide intermediate-length nails.

The trochanteric femoral nail advanced (TFNA) device is an intramedullary nail that uses a spiral blade or lag screw to obtain fixation in the femoral head.

The operative technique for other cephalomedullary devices is generally similar, but it is important to review the manufacturer’s guides for details.

Some systems offer the option to insert cement through the implant for augmentation in case of poor bone quality.

Another option is fracture compression/reduction along the helical blade/lag screw. This may be helpful if fracture gaps need to be closed after implant insertion.


## Preoperative Planning
Check the degree of the anterior bow of the femur on an x-ray of the uninjured extremity.

If there is excessive anterior bowing, the risk for anterior impingement is high and should be considered when choosing the entrance site.


## [[Hardware Breakdown|Implant Selection]]
There is not yet a clear indication of when to use a spiral blade and when to select a lag screw in the elderly patient. It is, therefore, often surgeon’s preference.

In a young patient with hard bone, a blade is relatively contraindicated, and a screw should be used instead (with tapping).



[Source](https://surgeryreference.aofoundation.org/orthopedic-trauma/adult-trauma/proximal-femur/trochanteric-fracture-intertrochanteric/nailing-short-nail#patient-positioning)